>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, APRIL 12th, ARMED ME
LOYAL TO RUSSIA STORM A POLICE
STATION IN UKRAINE
>>> WALMART'S BIG NEW BET ON
FOOD
WHAT IT MEANS TO CUSTOMERS AND
COMPETITORS.
>> AND JAILING THOSE WHO CAN'T
PAY THEIR FINES.
>> I DIDN'T SELL DRUGS
I DIDN'T BREAK INTO ANYONE'S
HOME
I DIDN'T KILL ANYBODY.
I HAD AN EXPIRED TAG
>>> NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
UKRAINE'S NATIONAL SECURIT
COUNCIL HELD AN EMERGENC
SESSION TONIGHT AFTER PR
RUSSIAN ACTIVISTS SEIZED NEW
BUILDINGS EARLIER IN THE DAY
THE INTERIOR MINISTER PROMISED
WHAT HE CALLED A VERY TOUG
RESPONSE
THEY WERE ARMED WITH PISTOLS AND
RIFLES AND SEIZE ADD POLICE HEAD
KAURS IN AN EASTERN UKRAINE CA
CITY
THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF PISTOLS
AND AMMUNITION STORED AT THE
POLICE HEAD QUARTERS
IN A NEARBY CITY, THEY ALS
SEIZED THE POLICE HEAD QUARTERS.
PROTESTORS HAVE OCCUPIED A
GOVERNMENT BUILDING THERE FO
NEARLY A WEEK.
EASTERN UKRAINE HAS A LARG
RUSSIAN SPEAKING POPULATION.
>> THERE HAS BEEN ANOTHER POISON
GAS ATTACK IN SYRIA.
AN AMATEUR VIDEO POSTED ONLINE
SHOWS MEN AND CHILDREN CROWDED
INTO A HOSPITAL ROOM, SOME
APPARENTLY HAVING DIFFICULTY
BREATHING.
THEY SAY THE ATTACK OCCURRED
LAST EVENING DURING AIR RAIDS BY
GOVERNMENT FORCES.
THE REGIME BLAMED REMEMBER L
FORCES SAYING THEY HAD USE
CHLORINE GAS
>>> A CHEMICAL ATTACK BY THE
ASSAD REGIME LAST AUGUST KILLE
HUNDREDS
>>> THE AUSTRALIAN PRIME
MINISTER TODAY TAMPED DOWN
EXPECTATIONS THAT SEARCH PLANE
AND SHIPS WILL RECOVER WRECKAG
FROM FLIGHT 370 ANY TIME SOON.
SOUNDS COMING FROM WHAT AR
BELOVED TO BE THE -- BELIEVED TO
BE THE BLACK BOX RECORDERS ARE
RAPIDLY FADING
>> NO ONE SHOULD UNDERESTIMATE
THE DIFFICULTY OF THE TASK AHEAD
OF US.
TRYING TO LOCATE ANYTHING 4 1/
KILOMETERS UNDERBENEATH TH
OCEAN IS A MASSIVE TASK AND IT
IS LIKELY TO CONTINUE FOR A LONG
TIME TO COME
>> THAT'S ROUGHLY EQUIVALENT T
3 MILES UNDERWATER
THE PLANE WENT MISSING FIV
WEEKS AGO TODAY.
>> IRAN TODAY CONDEMNED TH
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S DECISIO
NOT TO GRANT A VISA TO IT'S U.N.
AMBASSADOR
IRAN SAID IT WOULD APPEAL TH
DECISION TO THE YOU KNOW
THEY SAY HE WAS PART OF TH
GROUP RESPONSIBLE IN 1979.
THAT EVENT LED TO THE TAKING O
52 AMERICAN HOSTAGES HEL
CAPTIVE FOR ABOUT 15 MONTHS.
THEY HAVE DENIED INVOLVEMENT
>>> IN THE WEST AFRICAN NATION
OF GINY, HEALTH OFFICIAL
STRUGGLING TO CONTAIN THE DEADLY
EBOLA VIRUS HAVE SET UP CAMERA
AT AIRPORT CHECK POINTS.
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE HAVE DIED
IN RECENT WEEKS.
>>> HERE IN NEW YORK LAST NIGHT,
PRESIDENT OBAMA BLAMED
REPUBLICANS FOR TRYING TO IMPOSE
NEW RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING
HE SAYS IT IS TRYING T
UNDERMINE GAINS DURING THE CIVIL
RIGHTS ERA
>> IT IS THE SINGLE GREATEST
TOOL WE HAVE TO ADDRESS AN
UNJUST STATUS QUO.
YOU WOULD THINK THERE WOULD NO
BE AN ARGUMENT ABOUT THI
ANYMORE.
BUT THE STARK, SIMPLE TRUTH IS
THIS, THE RIGHT TO VOTE IS
THREATENED TODAY IN A WAY THAT
IT HAS NOT BEEN SINCE THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT BECAME LAW NEARLY
FIVE DECADES AGO
>> A SPOKESWOMAN SAID PROTECTING
THE INTEGRITY OF THE VOTIN
PROCESS IS SOMETHING THA
BENEFITS EVERYONE.
>>> NEW DETAILS ABOUT THE CRAS
IN CALIFORNIA INVOLVING A TOUR
BUS AND A FEDEX TRACTOR TRAILE
THAT KILLED TEN PEOPLE EARLIER
THIS WEEK.
THEY ARE SAYING THAT THE FEDEX
TRUCK WAS ALREADY ON FIRE BEFORE
IT VEERED ACROSS THE MEDIAN AN
HIT THE BUS.
A FEDEX SPOKESMAN HAD NO COMMENT
ON THE REPORT.
>>> THE U.S. BUREAU OF LAN
MANAGEMENT CALLED OFF A ROUND UP
OF CATTLE THAT IT SAID WER
BEING GRAZED ILLEGALLY O
FEDERAL LAND
THERE WAS A CONFRONTATION WITH
FEDERAL OFFICERS EARLIER IN TH
WEEK
THEY SAID THEY STOPPED THE ROUND
UP BECAUSE OF WHAT IT CALLED THE
SERIOUS CONCERN ABOUT ITS SAFETY
AND OF ITS EMPLOYEES AND THE
PUBLIC
>> A SERIES OF EXPERIMENTA
DRUGS WERE SHOWN TO CURE MOR
THAN 90% OF CASES.
HEPATITIS C KILLS APPROXIMATEL
15,000 AMERICANS EVERY YEAR.
>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATUR
SEGMENT.
IN-DEPTH ABOUT SIGNIFICANT BUT
UNDERREPORTED STORIES.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE YOU TO ALABAM
WHERE CIVIL ADVOCATES SA
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE ARE BEING
JAILED EACH MONTH BECAUSE THEY
CAN'T AFFORD THEIR FINES
DEBTORS PRISONS WERE OUTLAWED IN
THE UNITED STATES.
CARLOS FRAY HAS OUR REPORT
♪
>> TIMOTHY, THE MINISTER O
MUSIC AT THIS CHURCH IN ALABAM
SAYS THAT IT'S HIS DEEP FAITH IN
GOD THAT GOT HIM THROUGH SOM
TOUGH TIME
HIS SON COLE WAS BORN WITH A
RARE BRAIN DISEASE
>> PRETTY MUCH WHEN YOU LOOKED
INTO A CT SCAN, IT WAS NOTHING
BUT FLUID.
>> LIFE GOT TOUGHER WHEN HE WA
PULLED OVER BY POLICE AN
TICKETED FOR AN EXPIRED LICENS
PLATE TAG.
>> I WAS COMING FROM THE
HOSPITAL
WE'D BEEN SITTING WITH COLE.
AS I COME INTO TOWN, THEY HAD
TRAFFIC CHECK POINT.
>> HIS WIFE HAD ALSO RECEIVE
TWO TICKETS.
THEY TOLD THE JUDGE ABOUT THEI
HOSPITALIZED SON AND BOTH WERE
FOUND NOT GUILTY AS THESE COUR
DOCUMENTS SHOW
BUT THE JUDGE RULED THEY STILL
HAD TO PAY COURT COSTS OF ABOU
$500
DURING THIS PERIOD, TIMOTHY SAYS
HE WAS SPENDING SO MUCH TIME A
THE HOSPITAL THAT HE COULDN'
HOLD DOWN A JOB.
WITH HIS WIFE ALSO NOT WORKING
THEY COULDN'T AFFORD THE COURS
COSTS.
THEIR CASE WAS TURNED OVER TO
PRIVATE COMPANY THAT COLLECT
FINES FOR THE CITY
THE COMPANY TOLD HIM THAT HE AND
HIS WIFE COULD BE JAILED IF THEY
DIDN'T PAY WHAT THEY OWED.
>> IF YOU CAN'T PAY, THE
THEY'LL ISSUE A WARRANT FOR YOUR
ARREST
>> DID THAT SCARE YOU?
>> OF COURSE
>> HE SAID HE DID THE BEST H
COULD, BUT SAYS WHEN HE COULDN'T
CONTINUE TO PAY, THEY WERE
ARRESTED AND JAILED.
>> I FELT LIKE A CRIMINAL.
I DIDN'T SELL DRUGS.
I DIDN'T BREAK INTO ANYONE'S
HOME
I DIDN'T KILL ANYBODY.
I HAD AN EXPIRED TAG
>> SO YOU AND YOUR WIFE WERE
FOUND NOT GUILTY OF THE TRAFFI
VIOLATIONS, BUT STILL YOU WERE
BEING ARRESTED
>> WE WERE BEING ARRESTED, YES
I WAS VERY UPSET
>> THEY WERE RELEASED SEVERA
HOURS LATER WHEN A RELATIVE PAID
A PORTION OF WHAT THEY OWED.
THAT LED THEM TO BECOME PART O
A LAWSUIT AGAINST THE CITY
THE SUIT ALLEGES THA
INCARCERATING PEOPLE THAT CAN'
PAY THEIR FINES VIOLATES THE
CONSTITUTION
THOUGH SOME ARGUE IT'S LEGAL, IN
1971, THE SUPREME COURT RULE
THAT THE CONSTITUTION PROHIBIT
IMPOSING A JAIL TERM BECAUSE THE
DEFENDANT IS INDIGENT.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT'S
HAPPENING HERE
>> DAVID IS THE DEPUTY LEGAL
DIRECTOR OF THE SOUTHERN POVERTY
LAW CENTER, A NONPROFI
ORGANIZATION NOT INVOLVED IN
THEIR LAWSUIT.
HE ESTIMATES THAT A THOUSAND
PEOPLE EVERY MONTH ARE GOING T
JAIL IN ALABAMA BECAUSE THEY
CANNOT AFFORD TO PAY A FINE.
>> EVERYONE THINKS THAT DEBTOR
PRISON IS OVER
IT ISN'T
AS A MATTER OF PRACTICE AN
POLICY, THE COURTS ASK ONE
QUESTION
CAN YOU PAY THE FINE
IF YOU CAN'T, THEN YOU HAVE TO
DO WHAT'S CALLED SIT IT OUT IN
JAIL
THAT'S UNCONSTITUTIONAL UNLESS
THE COURT CONDUCTS AN INQUIR
INTO WHETHER THEY'RE INDIGENT.
ROUTINELY WHAT'S HAPPENING HER
IS THAT NO SUCH INQUIRY IS
UNDERTAKEN
>> DID THEY TRY TO ASSES
WHETHER OR NOT YOU COULD AFFOR
TO PAY THE FEES?
>> NO, SIR
IT WAS PASS AND GO
IT WAS REALLY FAST
>> COLLECTING FINES IS MOR
IMPORTANT THAN EVER BECAUSE MANY
CITIES FACE BUDGET SHORT FALLS
SO INCREASINGLY THEY TURN TO
PRIVATE PROBATION COMPANIES.
THAT'S WHERE JOURNAL CORRECTIO
SERVICES COMES IN.
>> WE WERE APPROACHED BY THE
PROBATION SERVICE.
THEY FOUND A NICHE
>> THEY DECLINED TO SPEAK WITH
US, SO WE MET WITH THE FINANCE
DIRECTOR FOR MOUNTAIN BROOK, A
NEIGHBORING CITY THAT ALSO HIRED
JIE ADDITIONAL CORRECTIO
SERVICES
IT'S ONE OF OVER A THOUSAN
CITIES THAT HAVE HIRED THIS TYPE
OF COMPANY
JUDICIAL CORRECTION SERVICES
COLLECTS FINES AT NO COST TO THE
CITIES IT WORKS FOR.
>> THEY'RE HELPING US TO BECOM
MORE EFFICIENT AND THEY'RE
HELPING US TO ENSHIRE WE DON'T
GET A -- ENSURE WE DON'T GET A
BACKLOG.
I THINK IT'S A WIN-WIN
I THINK PRIVATE PROBATION HAS
ROLE
>> REPUBLICAN STATE SENATOR CA
WARD IS THE CHAIRMAN OF TH
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE AND HAS BEEN
FOLLOWING THE GROWING TREND.
HE BELIEVES THE INDUSTRY WIL
CONTINUE TO GROW
>> I THINK THE PRIVATIZATION I
THE AREA OF COLLECTIONS, I THAIK
THAT WILL CONTINUE ALL ACROS
THE COUNTRY UNTIL YOU SEE
CONCENTRATED EFFORT TO PUT MOR
MONEY INTO THE COLLECTIO
SERVICES THAT THE ESTATE RUNS.
>> BY THEY ARE BY DEFINITION I
BUSINESS TO MAKE MONEY
EVEN THOUGH THEY DON'T CHARG
THE CITY ANYTHING, THEY CHARGE
OFFENDERS LIKE TIMOTHY
$45 A MONTH AND A STAMPUP FEE --
STARTUP FEE UNTIL THE DEBT I
PAID OFF
>> CAN YOU TELL ME IF YOU WERE
MAKING AN EFFORT TO PAY THES
OFF?
>> WE WERE
YES, SIR
EVEN THOUGH I WAS, WE WEREN'
GETTING VERY FAR WITH IT
I WASN'T GAINING MUCH GROUND
WITH ALL THE FEES ADDING UP.
>> STILL, FOUR MONTHS AFTER TH
INITIAL COURT DATE, DOCUMENT
SHOW THEY PAID OFF ALMOST $300
OF THE $5600 THEY -- $500 THEY
OWED IN COURSE COSTS
BUT THEN THINGS WENT FROM BAD TO
WORSE.
IN JUNE OF 2011, THEIR SON COL
DIED
A MONTH LATER, THEIR HOUSE WAS
FORECLOSED UPON.
THEY WERE CONSUMED WITH GRIE
AND MISSING THEIR APPOINTMENTS
WITH JSF
HE SAYS HE EXPLAINED THE
DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES HI
FAMILY WAS HURND, BUT THEY
WOULDN'T WORK WITH HIM AT ALL.
>> IT JUST HIT US ALL AT ONCE.
BUT IT WAS EITHER PAYOR GO T
JAY.
>> DID THAT HELP YOU TO COME U
WITH THE MONEY
>> IT HELPED ME TO TRY HARDER.
THE OLD THING GOES, YOU CAN'
SQUEEZE BLOOD FROM A TURNIP.
>> THE COUPLE MISSED AT LEAS
ONE COURT DATE EACH AND WERE
FINED ADDITIONAL FEES.
THEN WARRANTS FOR THEIR ARREST
WERE ISSUED.
BY THE TIME OF THEIR ARRESTS I
FEBRUARY OF 2011, THEY HAD
RACKED UP $2,500 IN ADDITIONAL
COURT FINES.
ALL THIS BEGAN WITH THRE
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS FOR WHICH
THEY WERE FOUND NOT GUILTY
IF YOU HAD COME UP WITH TH
MONEY YOU OWED AND SHOWN UP FO
ALL OF YOUR APPOINTMENTS WIT
THEM TO THE COURTS, NONE OF THIS
WOULD HAVE EVER HAPPENED
>> YOU'RE RIGHT.
BUT THE SITUATION I WAS IN,
WAS DOING WHAT I COULD DO.
HAD A DYING CHILD, NO STEADY JOB
AT THAT POINT BECAUSE WE WER
BACK AND FORTH TO THE HOSPITAL
I WAS DOING WHAT I COULD DO.
>> DAVID OF THE SOUTHERN POVERTY
LAW CENTER SAYS THAT PEOPLE LIKE
THEM END UP PAYING JCF OFF FOR
YEARS.
>> ALL THEY ARE DOING A PAYING
JCF FOR THE PRIVILEGE OF STAYING
OUT OF JAIL.
>> WE ASKED A COLUMBIA LAW
PROFESSOR TO TAKE A LOOK AT TH
LAWSUIT AND TO EVALUATE TH
CONSTITUTIONALITY OF PRIVATE
COMPANIES LIKE JSC COLLECTIN
FINES.
SHE HAS NO INVOLVEMENT IN TH
CASE
>> PART OF WHAT DUE PROCES
REQUIRES IS THAT YOU HAVE AN
IMPARTIAL DECISION MAKER
IF THE COMPANY THAT IS IMPOSIN
THE FEES AND CONTINUING YOUR
SUPERVISION HAS A FINANCIA
INTEREST IN YOUR STAYING UNDER
SUPERVISION, THAT CALLS THEI
IMPASH YALT INTO QUESTION.
>> SHE ALSO SAYS THE COURT I
OBLIGATED TO PROVIDE ALTERNATIVE
OPTIONS FOR AN INDIVIDUAL TO
PAYOFF A DEBT TO ASSOCIATE
SOCIETY.
>> IF YOU'RE NOT PAYING BECAUS
YOU'RE TOO POOR TO PAY, THEY
HAVE TO DO AN INVESTIGATION AN
OFFER ALTERNATIVE ARRANGEMENTS
IN ORDER TO WORK OFF THE FINE IN
SOME OTHER WAY
>> WE REACHED OUT TO JSC
MULTIPLE TIMES FOR AN INTERVIEW.
ON ITS WEBSITE, JSC SAYS THE
LAWSUIT IS BASELESS.
WE ALSO TRIED TO ASK THE MAYOR
OF THE TOWN IF HE WAS SATISF
SATISFIED WITH THE SERVICES, BUT
CITY HALL NEVER RESPONDED TO OUR
REQUEST.
SO WE WENT TO A CITY CIT
COUNSEL MEETING.
AFTER SPEAKING TO SOME OF TH
RESIDENTS HERE, THEY FEEL LIKE
THEY ARE BEING THREATENED WITH A
JAIL SENTENCE IF THEY DON'T PA
THEIR FINES.
>> I MEAN, IS IT NOT
UNCONSTITUTIONAL TO JAIL
SOMEBODY WHO CANNOT PAY THEI
FEE?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
THERE AGAIN, IF THE COURT --
[ INAUDIBLE
JURISDICTION AND I KNOW THAT
WHEN IT COMES BACK, WE'RE ONE OF
THE MANY, MANY CITIES IN ALABAMA
THAT USES A CONTRACT SERVICE AND
THE REASON BEING BECAUSE NOT
HAVING THE AMOUNT OF PERSONNEL
WE HAVE.
>> EVEN THE STATE SENATOR WH
SUPPORTS THE PRIVATE PROBATION
INDUSTRY HAS CONCERNS.
>> WHAT'S CURRENTLY IN EXISTENCE
IS ALMOST LIKE THE WILD WEST
IF YOU'RE GOING TO CREATE
SYSTEM THAT QUOTE, UNQUOTE IS
DEBTORS PRISON, ALL YOU'RE DOING
IS INVITING YOURSELF TO
FEDERAL LAWSUIT.
>> AS FOR THIS FAMILY, AFTER
BEING CHARGED AN INITIAL COURT
COST OF $500 FOR TRAFFIC
VIOLATIONS OF WHICH THEY WER
FOUND NOT GUILTY, COUR
DOCUMENTS PROVIDED BY THEI
LAWYERS SHOW THAT THEY'VE PAID
ALMOST $1300 TO THE COURT.
IT'S A NUMBER THAT DOESN'T EVE
INCLUDE ALL THE ADDITIONAL
MONTHLY FEES THEY PAID T
JOURNAL CORRECTION SERVICES.
THEY FAILED TO PROVIDE US TH
DOCUMENTS.
TIMOTHY SAYS HIS FAMILY STIL
CORRECTION SERVICES.
HOW MUCH
HE'S NOT SURE.
HE SAYS JCS STOPPED CONTACTING
HIM AFTER THE LAWSUIT WAS FILED.
>> LEARN ABOUT WHY THE AREA'
SURVEILLANCE RECORDING THE
MOVEMENTS OF AN ENTIRE CITY.
SEE MY INTERVIEW AT NEWS
HOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> ORGANIC FOOD SALES TOTALLE
SOME $30 BILLION IN THE U.S.
LAST YEAR AND SUPPLIERS CA
BARELY KEEP UP WITH DEMAND
WALMART ANNOUNCED THAT IT WOUL
SLASH PRICES OF SOME OF IT
ORGANIC PRODUCTS BY 25%.
THE COMPANY SAYS IT ACTED AFTE
RESEARCH SHOWS THEIR CUSTOMERS
WOULD PURCHASE ORGANIC PRODUCT
IF IT WAS MORE AFFORDABLE.
SO FIRST OF ALL, WHAT'S TH
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE LARGES
RETAIL IN THE COUNTRY, BUT
BEYOND THAT, WHY IS THIS NEWS SO
IMPORTANT?
>> PEOPLE THINK THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BE THE INFLECTION POINT
THAT WILL MAKE ORGANIC FOODS
MORE MAINSTREAM.
WALMART ALREADY SELLS MORE THA
1,600 DIFFERENT ITEMS.
NOW THEY'RE ADDING 100 ITEMS
FROM UNDER THE WILD OATS BRAND
THOSE WILL NOT HAVE THE TYPICA
PREMIUM YOU SEE WITH ORGANIC
FOOD
THERE'S THE 25% PREEM YI
TYPICALLY.
THAT WILL BE GONE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THIS IS
WAY TO BRING ORGANIC FOOD TO
LOWER INCOME SHOPPERS.
>> DOES THAT MEAN THAT OTHER
RETAILERS ADJUST THEIR PRICES?
>> THE IMPACT WILL ACTUALLY BE
MORE ON FOOD MAKERS.
THERE WON'T BE THAT MUCH
PRESSURE ON WHOLE FOODS BECAUS
THERE ISN'T THAT MUCH OVERLA
BETWEEN WHOLE FOOD SHOPPERS AN
WALMART SHOPPERS
PEOPLE THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE
MORE OF THE -- WILL BE USED FO
CONVENTIONAL FARMING -- I MEAN
FOR ORGANIC FARMING RATHER THA
CONVENTIONAL
SO THAT IN TURN WILL LOWER
COSTS.
IT WILL CREATE A CYCLE FOR
ORGANIC FOODS.
THAT WILL PRESSURE COMPANIES
LIKE KEHL LOG AMONG OTHERS T
OFFER MORE ORGANIC FOODS
>> SO THIS IS REALLY MOR
PRESSURE ON MANUFACTURERS TO
CREATE MORE ORGANIC FOOD FOR
RETAILERS THEN
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> EVEN AS WE SEE THE TREN
LINES GOING UP, THIS IS STILL
VERY SMALL FRACTION OF THE
OVERALL FOOD MARKET, RIGHT
>> IT'S ROUGHLY 4% OF FOOD
SPENDING IN THE UNITED STATES.
BUT IT'S GROWING BY ABOUT 10
PER YEAR
IF YOU LOOK AT COMPANIES LIK
WALMART AND TARGET, THEY GET A
HUGE AMOUNT OF THEIR SALES FRO
GROCERY.
WALMART GETS 55% OF ITS REVENU
FROM GROCERY
IT HAS BEEN A STRUGGLING
BUSINESS FOR THEM.
SO THIS IS A WAY FOR THEM TO
GIVE A BOOST TO THE RAW GROCER
SALES.
>> WHAT DOES THIS DO FOR THE
PRODUCERS OF FOOD?
RIGHT NOW, IT SEEMS THESE PRICES
ARE UP BECAUSE SUPPLY IS SHORTER
THAN DEMAND.
>> WELL, THE -- SEVERAL GROUPS
SUCH AS THE ENVIRONMENTA
WORKING GROUP AND THE CENTER FOR
SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST
BELIEVE THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE
AN INCENTIVE FOR MORE FARMERS TO
USE MORE LABS FOR ORGANI
FARMING.
OVERALL ORGANIC FOOD PRICES,
BEYOND THESE 100 WILD OATS ITEMS
THAT WALMART WILL BE SELLING
WILL FALL.
THAT WILL IN TURN PRESSURE THE
PACKAGED FOOD MAKERS
>> AND THIS ISN'T NECESSARIL
LIKELY TO HAPPEN ANY TIME SOON
EVEN IF A FARMER TURNS OVER HI
LAND INTO ORGANIC CROPS, THI
TAKES A COUPLE YEARS FOR THE FDA
TO GIVE YOU THAT SALE, RIGHT
>> YOU CAN'T JUST USE YOUR FAR
DIFFERENTLY FROM ONE DAY TO TH
NEXT
THE REASON THIS HAS BEEN SEEN AS
A PRETTY BIG DEAL IS THAT IT'S A
TURNING POINT NOW IN FOO
CONSUMPTION.
ORGANIC FOOD HAS TYPICALLY BEE
ASSOCIATED WITH MORE AFFLUEN
SHOPPERS
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THIS I
THE FIRST STEP TOWARDS I
BECOMING MAINSTREAM AND VIABLE
FOR LOWER INCOME SHOPPERS.
>> WHAT KIND OF PRODUCTS UNDER
THIS WILD OATS BRAND WIL
WALMART BE SELLING
>> THE THING THAT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER IS THAT THIS IS NOT
GOING TO BE DAIRY AND PRODUCE.
THEY INCLUDE THINGS LIKE TOMAT
PASTE, OLIVE OIL
THE OTHER 1,600 ITEMS CONSIDERED
ORGANIC WHICH ARE MOSTLY PRODUCE
AND DAIRY, THEY WILL KEEP THAT
ORGANIC PRICE PREMIUM.
>> IS THIS ALSO TRYING TO CATC
UP WITH THE TREND OF YOUNGER
PEOPLE WHO ARE MORE CONSCIOU
ABOUT WHAT GOES IN THEIR FOOD?
>> LOWER INCOME SHOPTERS ARE
LIKE EVERYONE ELSE
THEY WANT TO EAT FOODS THAT AR
GOOD FOR THEM AND SUSTAINABL
FOR THE ECONOMY.
SO IT'S -- AS YOU MENTIONE
BEFORE, WALMART'S OWN RESEARCH
FOUND THAT 90% OF ITS SHOPPERS
WOULD BE WILLING TO BUY ORGANI
FOODS IF IT WERE AFFORDABLE.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> Announcer: THIS IS PBS NEWS
HOUR WEEKEND SATURDAY.
>>> AT AN INTERNATIONA
CONFERENCE AT THE VATICAN TODAY,
POPE FRANCIS MET WITH POLICE
OFFICIALS IN AN EFFORT TO STOP
HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
JULIE HAS OUR REPORT
>> AS EVER, POPE FRANCIS DIDN'
MINCE HIS WORDS DESCRIBING HUMAN
TRAFFICKING AS AN OPEN WOUND O
THE BODY OF CONTEMPORARY
SOCIETY.
>> WHAT MESSAGE DO YOU HAVE FO
THOSE WHO CARRY OUT THE CRIME OF
HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND WHAT
MESSAGE DO YOU HAVE FOR TH
VICTIMS?
[ INAUDIBLE
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE
>> TO THOSE WHO SUFFER OF TH
BODY OF CHRIST, THE FLESH OF
CHRIST
[ INAUDIBLE
>> HOW TO CRY, HOW TO LAMENT
WE NEED MANY TEARS IN ORDER TO
UNDERSTAND THE DIE MENTION O
THIS DRAMA
>> THE PULLING POWER OF POPE
FRANCIS AS 20 POLICE CHIEFS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD HAVE COME T
SEE HIM HERE AT THE VATICAN.
THEY KNOW HOW PASSIONATELY
RECARES ABOUT HUMAN TRAFFICKIN
AND HOW CLOSELY HE WILL BE
WATCHING THEIR WORK.
A WAVE AND A SMILE, BUT
SERIOUS CHALLENGE TO MAKE
CHANGE
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW FROM VANCOUVER,
CONTROLLING THE SPREAD OF HIV BY
HELPING DRUG USERS TAKE ILLEGA
DRUGS SAFELY
>> IF THIS FACILITY WASN'T
THERE, THESE PEOPLE WOULD BE
INJECTING IN ALLEY WAYS, RUNNING
FROM THE POLICE AND CONTINUE T
BE DISCONNECTED FROM THE HEALT
CARE SYSTEM.
>>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
THANKS FOR WATCHING.